feat(docs): add sponsored-txs tutorial Part I (#4651)
iotaledger/iota: docs/content/developer/tutorials/sponsored-txs.mdx

## Architecture and Flow Overview

The workflow of the sponsored transaction is as follows:
    - A user who does not have an IOTA balance wants to subscribe to the free trial option. They will send a request to the Gas Station server to sponsor their transaction alongside content type (Music, News or Movies).
    - The [Gas Station server] will verify that this user has not used the free trial option before. If the user is eligible, the Gas Station will build a transaction (with gas payment from the sponsor's balance), sign it, and send back both the transaction and the signature separately as the response.
    - The user, having received the transaction and the sponsor's signature, will sign the transaction and send it to the IOTA network. The user can do this using the CLI, Rust SDK or TS SDK. In this part, we will use the Rust SDK.
    - The sponsor/admin (they can be different addresses, but for simplicity, we will assume they are the same) can now call the `publish` content function on the platform to publish the content to the user's address.

![Architecture overview](../../../site/static/img/developer/tutorials/sponsored-txs/sponsored-tx-arch.png)

## Getting Started

> To build the architecture, we are going to create three parts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build the architecture, we are going to create three components:
```

-   [The Move package for the sponsored transactions](./media-platform-package.mdx) 
-   [The Gas Station server](./gas-station-server.mdx) 

> -   [The Transaction Builder](./transaction-builder.mdx) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  [The Media Platform's Move package for the sponsored transactions](./media-platform-package.mdx).
2.   [The Gas Station server](./gas-station-server.mdx).
3.   [The Transaction Builder](./transaction-builder.mdx).
```
Please use ordered lists when items need a specific order.

### First Component: Media Platform Package

The first component is the media platform package, which will contain the `free_trial` function that users can call to subscribe to the free trial option. The `free_trial` function will be called by the user's signed transaction, which will be sponsored by the Gas Station server.

First, [create a new Move project](../getting-started/create-a-package.mdx) and add the following code to the `sources/sponsored_transactions.move` file:

```move reference
https://github.com/iota-community/sponsored-transactions-demo/blob/main/sponsored_transactions_packages/sources/sponsored_transactions.move
```

When you [publish the package](../getting-started/publish.mdx), `init` will be called, creating a `SubscriptionManager` shared object and transferring the `Publisher` object to the sender. The `Publisher` object is used to ensure that only the publisher can call the `publish` function.

```shell
$ iota client publish
UPDATING GIT DEPENDENCY https://github.com/iotaledger/iota.git
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY Iota
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY MoveStdlib
BUILDING sponsored_transactions_packages
Successfully verified dependencies on-chain against source.

> Transaction Digest: HMNX7GPsiMpCTBw7UTxWsc7afDC4BhKLuJMv8sWev1xh

Reviewer: Please wrap the digest in a `<details>` tag

│  ┌──                                                                                              │
│  │ Owner: Account Address ( 0xbf293ced2593118cd231f107f341bb1ad9db39cd0497bff29d355730cf4e2bc2 )  │
│  │ CoinType: 0x2::iota::IOTA                                                                      │
│  │ Amount: -24195200                                                                              │
│  └──                                                                                              │
╰───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
```

What we will need to call the `free_trial` function is the `SubscriptionManager` shared object.
Both `subscribe` and `free_trial` functions allow users to subscribe to a specific type of content, with the distinction that `free_trial` doesn't deduct coins from the user's balance.

:::info
The package implementation is over simplified as the main focus is the sponsored transactions workflow. In a real-world application, you would want:
1- Use timestamps to track the subscription duration, and automatically unsubscribe users after the trial period.

> 2- Restrict the number of free trials a user can have.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use timestamps to track the subscription duration and automatically unsubscribe users after the trial period.
2. Restrict the number of free trials a user can have.
```

:::

This package contains the following functions:
1- `subscribe`: Allows a user to subscribe to a specific type of content.
2- `free_trial`: Allows a user to subscribe to the free trial option.

> 3- `publish`: Publishes content to the subscribers and trials. This function is only callable by the publisher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `subscribe`: Allows a user to subscribe to a specific type of content.
2. `free_trial`: Allows a user to subscribe to the free trial option.
3. `publish`: Publishes content to the subscribers and trials. This function is only callable by the publisher.
```
The list was broken

And the following structs:
1- `SubscriptionType`: Enum representing subscription types.
2- `Content`: Struct representing content.
3- `Subscribed`: Event for subscriptions.

> 4- `SubscriptionManager`: Struct encapsulating subscription and trial tables. This is used to manage subscriptions and trials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `SubscriptionType`: Enum representing subscription types.
2. `Content`: Struct representing content.
3. `Subscribed`: Event for subscriptions.
4. `SubscriptionManager`: Struct encapsulating subscription and trial tables. This is used to manage subscriptions and trials.
```

Reviewer: List was broken.

### Second Compononent: Gas Station Server

The Gas Station server is responsible for verifying the user's eligibility for the free trial, building the transaction, and signing it. The server's response will include the transaction and the sponsor's signature.
We will use [axum](https://docs.rs/axum/latest/axum/) as the web framework for the Gas Station server. However, you can use any web framework you are comfortable with.

To start, create a new rust project called `gas_station_server` by running the following command:

```bash
cargo new gas_station_server
```
You can now open the `gas_station_server` directory with your IDE of choice and add the following dependencies to your `Cargo.toml` file (we will see their usage as we go through the code):

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```toml reference
https://github.com/iota-community/sponsored-transactions-demo/blob/main/backend/Cargo.toml#L7-L23
```

> The Gas Station server will have the following `main` function in the `src/main.rs` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you should update the Gas Station's `main` function in the `src/main.rs` file with the following code:
```

:::info
This implementation of a gas station server has a simple implementation of shared state to keep track of addresses in memory. In a real-world application, you would want to use a database to store this information.
:::

```rust reference
https://github.com/iota-community/sponsored-transactions-demo/blob/main/backend/src/main.rs#L124-L150
```

We technically have two routes in the Gas Station server:
1- The root route `/` will return a welcome message.

> 2- The `/sign_and_fund_transaction` route will handle the user's request to sponsor the free trial. This route will call the `sign_and_fund_transaction` function, which we will implement next.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Technically, the gas Station server has two routes:
1. The root route `/` will return a welcome message.
2. The `/sign_and_fund_transaction` route will handle the user's request to sponsor the free trial. This route will call the `sign_and_fund_transaction` function, which we will implement next.
```
It'd be nice to add a header for the func so you can add a link

:::danger No data persistence
In a real-world application, you would want to use a database to store the shared state information. However, for simplicity, we are using a shared state in memory. 
This means that if the server restarts, the shared state will be lost.
:::

> Next, we will implement the `sign_and_fund_transaction` function, which will be called when the user sends a request to the `/sign_and_fund_transaction` route. This function will verify the user's eligibility, build the transaction, sign it, and return the transaction and the sponsor's signature.

Reviewer: Please add a note about updating the sponsor address here.

```rust reference
https://github.com/iota-community/sponsored-transactions-demo/blob/main/backend/src/main.rs#L63-L122
```

The function `sign_and_fund_transaction` will:

> 1- Check if the user has already requested funds. If they have, it will return a conflict status.
> 2- Add the user's address to the set of addresses that have requested funds.
> 3- Build a signed and funded transaction using the `sign_and_fund_transaction` util function, which we will implement next.
> 4- Increment the total sponsored fees by the gas price. This is used for tracking by the sponsor.
> 5- Respond with the transaction bytes and the sponsor's signature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check if the user has already requested funds. If they have, it will return a conflict status.
2. Add the user's address to the set of addresses that have requested funds.
3. Build a signed and funded transaction using the `sign_and_fund_transaction` util function, which we will implement next.
4. Increase the total sponsored fees by the gas price. The sponsor uses this to track expenses.
5. Respond with the transaction bytes and the sponsor's signature.
```

Next, we will implement the `sign_and_fund_transaction` util function, which will build the transaction, sign it, and return the signed transaction.

> under the `utils.rs` file, add the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a file called `utils.rs` in the `src` directory, and add the following code:
```

```rust reference
https://github.com/iota-community/sponsored-transactions-demo/blob/main/backend/src/utils.rs#L119-L208
```

This function will:

> 1- Build a programmable transaction that calls the `free_trial` function of the `sponsored_transactions_packages` package.
> 2- Get the gas coin of the sponsor.
> 3- Create a transaction data object with the programmable transaction, gas budget, gas price, and sponsor address.
> 4- Sign the transaction by the sponsor.
> 5- Return the signed transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Build a programmable transaction that calls the `free_trial` function of the `sponsored_transactions_packages` package.
2. Get the sponsor's gas coin.
3. Create a transaction data object with the programmable transaction, gas budget, gas price, and sponsor address.
4. Sign the transaction by the sponsor.
5. Return the signed transaction.
```

> Finally, we can now run the server and call the `/sign_and_fund_transaction` route to sponsor the free trial. The server will return the transaction bytes and the sponsor's signature, which the user can use to send the transaction to the IOTA network.

Reviewer: There's a lot of code in the server repo that hasn't been added to the tutorial, i.e. imports and the faucet related functions.  If the user is simply following this, it won't run, as well; it'd be nice to add links to the refs for all the SDK stuff that you use.

Author: I think it would be more convenient to import important parts of the code and explain it, than importing all code
I think the `See full example on Github` should direct the user who wants to pull and run the project, WDYT?

Reviewer: Yes, that certainly works. But I think we should either explain that those steps happen, and add a link to the relevant docs, for example https://docs.iota.org/developer/getting-started/get-coins#using-the-iota-cli.

Author: I added a note about pasting all code parts into respective files 👍

    -d '{
        "sender": "0xc7d158a9b05c6dfd07c233649c9e0f78320d066e5ac0e8f5101de500ad9e84e8",
        "content_type": "Music"        
    }' \
    http://localhost:3001/sign_and_fund_transaction
```

The server will return the transaction bytes and the sponsor's signature, which the user can use to send the transaction to the IOTA network.

```json
{
"message":"Transaction signed and funded successfully",
"bytes":"AAACAAYFTXVzaWMBAbBSNubKBn4/oRS6sVWPNeRAl+AHiqaBdh+qYiIIWKF2DhQAAAAAAAABAQAgaekcgzM1C99rvSmRJmrTOZJ1fbevSCka21jnpbDhqh9zcG9uc29yZWRfdHJhbnNhY3Rpb25zX3BhY2thZ2VzCmZyZWVfdHJpYWwAAgEAAAEBAMfRWKmwXG39B8IzZJyeD3gyDQZuWsDo9RAd5QCtnoToATnqmj+YicH8PXnWPZeuKTp0hZ0M4Lh2wJAhFHHjcGe7ERQAAAAAAAAgAakPl91BjzezX1DLa+BnLWkJ5k0vnTX6/Qg/iJw11gW/KTztJZMRjNIx8QfzQbsa2ds5zQSXv/KdNVcwz04rwugDAAAAAAAAQEtMAAAAAAAA",
"sigs":["ACCPERsBa2Wt7TFO1p7KDbDI5epikVJEmwvE3yLKv3nuMvgMVFZbh9EJ0kQjLAlHGfUaYMEvrZuNMSuR7zOqrA/p1vxEC3McO9IvqEI8BXaHBgCUFx3DXTO+QWmQKwj2uA=="]
}
```

For the full code of the Gas Station server, you can check the [Gas Station server implementation](https://github.com/iota-community/sponsored-transactions-demo/blob/main/backend/src/main.rs)

> ### Third Component: Transaction Builder

Reviewer: Seeing that the tutorial will have muitliple parts, wdyt about splitting the docs by components?

Author: Like tabs?

Reviewer: Liker sepparete `.mdx` for each of:
* First Component: Media Platform Package
* Second Component: Gas Station Server
* Third Component: Transaction Builder

Reviewer: Btw, we may want to think of another word, or remove it entirely. Perhaps it's just me, but when I read "component" I immediately think React.

Author: That would be nicer yes, will separate them 👍

The transaction builder is a simple program that takes the raw tx bytes,sponsor signature and user address as parameters, and sends the transaction to the IOTA network then returns the result.
To make it dynamic, we will use the `clap` crate to parse the command-line arguments.

`init` a new rust project, different from the [Gas Station server](./sponsored-txs.mdx#second-compononent-gas-station-server), and add the following dependencies to your `Cargo.toml` file:

```toml reference
https://github.com/iota-community/sponsored-transactions-demo/blob/main/sender_client_rust/Cargo.toml#L6-L23
```

> In the `src/main.rs` file, add the logic for `construct_tx` function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `src/main.rs` file, add the logic for the `construct_tx` function:
```

```rust reference
https://github.com/iota-community/sponsored-transactions-demo/blob/main/sender_client_rust/src/main.rs#L68-L122
```

The `construct_tx` function will try to decode the provided transaction bytes and the sponsor's signature. Then, it will sign the transaction with the sender's keystore, send it to the IOTA network, and print the response.

Now that we have the `tx_bytes` and `sponsor_sig` from the Gas Station server, we can use the `construct_tx` function to send the transaction to the IOTA network:

> ::: note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
```

> When executing the following command, replace values with actual values from the Gas Server response. Also try to use a different address for the sponosor address that has no funds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When executing the following command, replace values with actual values from the Gas Server response. Also, try to use a different address for the sponsor address that has no funds
```

> # Sponsored Transactions: Part I

Reviewer 2: Add the metadata at the top, enclosed in` ---`, defining the title and description.

Reviewer 3: And some tags ❤️.
Title you can either specify in markdown or in the front matter. But I actually prefer to keep it in markdown as you already have it

3- The user, having received the transaction and the sponsor's signature, will sign the transaction and send it to the IOTA network. The user can do this using the CLI, Rust SDK or TS SDK. In this part, we will use the Rust SDK.
4- The sponsor/admin (they can be different addresses, but for simplicity, we will assume they are the same) can now call the `publish` content function on the platform to publish the content to the user's address.

![](../../../site/static/img/developer/tutorials/sponsored-txs/sponsored-tx-arch.png)

## Prerequisites

- [Installed Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install)
- [Installed IOTA CLI tool](../getting-started/install-iota.mdx)

### First Component: Media Platform Package

The first component is the media platform package, which will contain the `free_trial` function that users can call to subscribe to the free trial option. The `free_trial` function will be called by the user's signed transaction, which will be sponsored by the Gas Station server.

First, [create a new Move project](../getting-started/create-a-package.mdx) and add the following code to the `src/lib.rs` file:

```move

> module sponsored_transactions_packages::sponsored_transactions_packages;

Reviewer 2: Shall we put this code in `/examples/move` directory and import it from there?

Both `subscribe` and `free_trial` functions allow users to subscribe to a specific type of content, with the distinction that `free_trial` doesn't deduct coins from the user's balance.

:::info
The package implementation is over simplified as the main focus is the sponsored transactions workflow. In a real-world application, you would want:
1- Use timestamps to track the subscription duration, and automatically unsubscribe users after the trial period.
2- Restrict the number of free trials a user can have.
:::

This package contains the following functions:
1- `subscribe`: Allows a user to subscribe to a specific type of content.
2- `free_trial`: Allows a user to subscribe to the free trial option.
3- `publish`: Publishes content to the subscribers and trials. This function is only callable by the publisher.

And the following structs:
1- `SubscriptionType`: Enum representing subscription types.
2- `Content`: Struct representing content.
3- `Subscribed`: Event for subscriptions.
4- `SubscriptionManager`: Struct encapsulating subscription and trial tables. This is used to manage subscriptions and trials.

> ### Second Compononent: Gas Station Server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Second Compononent: Gas Station Server

```

        "content_type": "Music"        
    }' \
    http://localhost:3001/sign_and_fund_transaction

# Change the sender address to the one you want to use, and the content type to "Music", "Movies", or "News"
```

The server will return the transaction bytes and the sponsor's signature, which the user can use to send the transaction to the IOTA network.

```json
{
"message":"Transaction signed and funded successfully",
"bytes":"AAACAAYFTXVzaWMBAbBSNubKBn4/oRS6sVWPNeRAl+AHiqaBdh+qYiIIWKF2DhQAAAAAAAABAQAgaekcgzM1C99rvSmRJmrTOZJ1fbevSCka21jnpbDhqh9zcG9uc29yZWRfdHJhbnNhY3Rpb25zX3BhY2thZ2VzCmZyZWVfdHJpYWwAAgEAAAEBAMfRWKmwXG39B8IzZJyeD3gyDQZuWsDo9RAd5QCtnoToATnqmj+YicH8PXnWPZeuKTp0hZ0M4Lh2wJAhFHHjcGe7ERQAAAAAAAAgAakPl91BjzezX1DLa+BnLWkJ5k0vnTX6/Qg/iJw11gW/KTztJZMRjNIx8QfzQbsa2ds5zQSXv/KdNVcwz04rwugDAAAAAAAAQEtMAAAAAAAA",
"sigs":["ACCPERsBa2Wt7TFO1p7KDbDI5epikVJEmwvE3yLKv3nuMvgMVFZbh9EJ0kQjLAlHGfUaYMEvrZuNMSuR7zOqrA/p1vxEC3McO9IvqEI8BXaHBgCUFx3DXTO+QWmQKwj2uA=="]
}
```

For the full code of the Gas Station server, you can check the [Gas Station server implementation](https://github.com/iota-community/sponsored-transactions-demo/blob/main/backend/src/main.rs)

> ### Third Component: Transaction builder

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Third Component: Transaction Builder
```

# Sponsored Transactions: Part I

> 

Reviewer: Please add a link  to this in the developer/iota-101/transactions/sponsored-transactions/use-sponsored-transactions section

In this tutorial, we will learn how to create a [sponsored transaction](../iota-101/transactions/sponsored-transactions/about-sponsored-transactions.mdx) on the IOTA network using the [IOTA Rust SDK](../../references/rust-sdk.mdx).
We are going to create a media platform, where users can subscribe to several types of content. There is a free trial option, from which users can try the service for a limited time.
For new users on the IOTA network, the platform admin will sponsor the gas fees for the `free trial` option. This will allow users to experience the platform without having to pay for gas fees nor subscription fees.

## Architecture and Flow Overview

The workflow of the sponsored transaction is as follows:

> 1- A user who does not have an IOTA balance wants to subscribe to the free trial option. They will send a request to the Gas Station server to sponsor their transaction alongside content type (Music, News or Movies).

Reviewer 2: Please create a list of all the points and apply this approach everywhere.

2- The [Gas Station server] will verify that this user has not used the free trial option before. If the user is eligible, the Gas Station will build a transaction (with gas payment from the sponsor's balance), sign it, and send back both the transaction and the signature separately as the response.
3- The user, having received the transaction and the sponsor's signature, will sign the transaction and send it to the IOTA network. The user can do this using the CLI, Rust SDK or TS SDK. In this part, we will use the Rust SDK.
4- The sponsor/admin (they can be different addresses, but for simplicity, we will assume they are the same) can now call the `publish` content function on the platform to publish the content to the user's address.

> ![](../../../site/static/img/developer/tutorials/sponsored-txs/sponsored-tx-arch.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Architecture overview](../../../site/static/img/developer/tutorials/sponsored-txs/sponsored-tx-arch.png)
```

## Prerequisites

- [Installed Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install)
- [Installed IOTA CLI tool](../getting-started/install-iota.mdx)

### First Component: Media Platform Package

The first component is the media platform package, which will contain the `free_trial` function that users can call to subscribe to the free trial option. The `free_trial` function will be called by the user's signed transaction, which will be sponsored by the Gas Station server.

> First, [create a new Move project](../getting-started/create-a-package.mdx) and add the following code to the `src/lib.rs` file:

Reviewer: ````suggestion
First, [create a new Move project](../getting-started/create-a-package.mdx) by running the following command:

```bash
iota move new sponsored_transactions
```

You can now use your IDE of choice to open the created directory and add the following code to `sources/sponsored_transactions.move`.
````

Why src/lib.rs? Did I miss something?

```move

> module sponsored_transactions_packages::sponsored_transactions_packages;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
module sponsored_transactions::sponsored_transactions {
```

use iota::event;
use iota::linked_table::{Self, LinkedTable};
use iota::package::Publisher;
use std::string::{Self, String};

const ENotAuthorized: u64 = 0;
const EInvalidSubscriptionType: u64 = 1;

/// Enum representing subscription types
public enum SubscriptionType has copy, drop, store {
    Music,
    Movies,
    News,
}

public struct Content has key, store {
    id: UID,
    content_type: SubscriptionType,
    content: String,
}

/// Event for subscriptions
public struct Subscribed has copy, drop {
    id: address,
    subscription_type: SubscriptionType,
}

/// The OTW type for the Subscription Manager
public struct SPONSORED_TRANSACTIONS_PACKAGES has drop {}

/// Subscription manager struct encapsulating subscription and trial tables
public struct SubscriptionManager has key, store {
    id: UID,
    subscriptions: LinkedTable<address, SubscriptionType>,
    trials: LinkedTable<address, SubscriptionType>,
}

/// function init for SubscriptionManager

> fun init(otw: SPONSORED_TRANSACTIONS_PACKAGES, ctx: &mut TxContext) {

Reviewer: This throws the following on build:

`fun init(otw: SPONSORED_TRANSACTIONS_PACKAGES, ctx: &mut TxContext) {
   │     ^^^^      ------------------------------- Invalid parameter 'otw' of type 'sponsored_transactions::sponsored_transactions::SPONSORED_TRANSACTIONS_PACKAGES'. Expected a one-time witness type, 'sponsored_transactions::sponsored_transactions::SPONSORED_TRANSACTIONS
   │     │          
   │     Invalid 'init' function declaration
   │
   = One-time witness types are structs with the following requirements: their name is the upper-case version of the module's name, they have no fields (or a single boolean field), they have no type parameters, and they have only the 'drop' ability.
`

Author: This is because the name of the module changed while the name of the `otw` stayed the same, I will replace it on all occurrences 👍

    assert!(publisher.from_module<SubscriptionManager>(), ENotAuthorized);

    let mut first_sub = manager.subscriptions.front();
    let mut first_trial = manager.trials.front();

    while (option::is_some(first_sub)) {
        let k = *option::borrow(first_sub); // option::borrow - returns an immutable reference to the value inside the Option
        let v = linked_table::borrow(&manager.subscriptions, k);

        let content = Content {
            id: object::new(ctx),
            content_type: *v,
            content: string::utf8(b"This is the content"),
        };
        transfer::transfer(content, k);
        first_sub = manager.subscriptions.next(k);
    };

    while (option::is_some(first_trial)) {
        let k = *option::borrow(first_trial); // option::borrow - returns an immutable reference to the value inside the Option
        let v = linked_table::borrow(&manager.trials, k);

        let content = Content {
            id: object::new(ctx),
            content_type: *v,
            content: string::utf8(b"This is the content"),
        };
        transfer::transfer(content, k);
        first_trial = manager.trials.next(k);
    };
}
```

> When you [publish the package](../getting-started/publish.mdx), `init` will be called creating a `SubscriptionManager` shared object and transferring the `Publisher` object to the sender. The `Publisher` object is used to ensure that only the publisher can call the `publish` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you [publish the package](../getting-started/publish.mdx), `init` will be called, creating a `SubscriptionManager` shared object and transferring the `Publisher` object to the sender. The `Publisher` object is used to ensure that only the publisher can call the `publish` function.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Please hide this behind a `<details>` tag.

╰──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
╭───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ Balance Changes                                                                                   │
├───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  ┌──                                                                                              │
│  │ Owner: Account Address ( 0xbf293ced2593118cd231f107f341bb1ad9db39cd0497bff29d355730cf4e2bc2 )  │
│  │ CoinType: 0x2::iota::IOTA                                                                      │
│  │ Amount: -24195200                                                                              │
│  └──                                                                                              │
╰───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
```

> What we will need to call the `free_trial` function is the `SubscriptionManager` shared object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To call the `free_trial` function, we will need to use the shared `SubscriptionManager` object.
```

2- Restrict the number of free trials a user can have.
:::

This package contains the following functions:
1- `subscribe`: Allows a user to subscribe to a specific type of content.
2- `free_trial`: Allows a user to subscribe to the free trial option.
3- `publish`: Publishes content to the subscribers and trials. This function is only callable by the publisher.

And the following structs:
1- `SubscriptionType`: Enum representing subscription types.
2- `Content`: Struct representing content.
3- `Subscribed`: Event for subscriptions.
4- `SubscriptionManager`: Struct encapsulating subscription and trial tables. This is used to manage subscriptions and trials.

### Second Compononent: Gas Station Server

The Gas Station server is responsible for verifying the user's eligibility for the free trial, building the transaction, and signing it. The server's response will include the transaction and the sponsor's signature.
We will use [axum](https://docs.rs/axum/latest/axum/) as the web framework for the Gas Station server. However, you can use any web framework you are comfortable with.

> To start, create a new rust project and add the following dependencies to your `Cargo.toml` file (we will se their usage as we go through the code):

Reviewer: ````suggestion
To start, create a new rust project called `gas_station_server` by running the following command:

```bash
cargo new gas_station_server
```
You can now open the `gas_station_server` directory with your IDE of choice and add the following dependencies to your `Cargo.toml` file (we will see their usage as we go through the code):
```

> ```toml

Reviewer: can we import this from a repo?

[dependencies]
axum = "0.6.20"
hyper = { version = "0.14.27", features = ["full"] }
tower = "0.4.13"
iota-sdk = { git = "https://github.com/iotaledger/iota", package = "iota-sdk" }
iota-keys = { git = "https://github.com/iotaledger/iota", package = "iota-keys" }
iota-config = { git = "https://github.com/iotaledger/iota", package = "iota-config" }
shared_crypto = { git = "https://github.com/iotaledger/iota", package = "shared-crypto" }

tokio = { version = "1.2", features = ["full"] }
anyhow = "1.0"
serde = { version = "1.0", features = ["derive"] }
futures = "0.3"
serde_json = "1.0"
reqwest = {version = "0.11.4", features = ["json"]}
fastcrypto = "0.1.8"
bcs = "0.1.4"
```

> The Gas Station server will have the following `main` funcion in the `src/main.rs` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Gas Station server will have the following `main` function in the `src/main.rs` file:
```

> ```rust

Reviewer: can we import this from a repo?

> // TODO: This is a simple example of a shared state. In a real-world application, you would want to use a database to store this information.

Reviewer: Please add the TODO's text as plain text in the tutorial.

type SharedState = Arc<RwLock<(HashSet<IotaAddress>, u128)>>;

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() -> Result<(), anyhow::Error> {
    // Create shared state
    let state: SharedState = Arc::new(RwLock::new((HashSet::new(), 0))); // (addresses, total_sponsored_fees)

    // Initialize IOTA client
    let iota_testnet = IotaClientBuilder::default().build_testnet().await?;
    let msg = format!("Welcome to IOTA Testnet {:?}", iota_testnet.api_version());

    // Build the router
    let app = Router::new()
        .route("/", get(move || async { msg }))
        .route(
            "/sign_and_fund_transaction",
            post(sign_and_fund_transaction),
        )
        .with_state(state);

    // Run the server
    axum::Server::bind(&"0.0.0.0:3001".parse().unwrap())
        .serve(app.into_make_service())
        .await
        .unwrap();

    Ok(())
}
```

We technically have two routes in the Gas Station server:
1- The root route `/` will return a welcome message.
2- The `/sign_and_fund_transaction` route will handle the user's request to sponsor the free trial. This route will call the `sign_and_fund_transaction` function, which we will implement next.

> :::danger

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::danger No data persistence
```

In a real-world application, you would want to use a database to store the shared state information. However, for simplicity, we are using a shared state in memory. 
This means that if the server restarts, the shared state will be lost.
:::

Next, we will implement the `sign_and_fund_transaction` function, which will be called when the user sends a request to the `/sign_and_fund_transaction` route. This function will verify the user's eligibility, build the transaction, sign it, and return the transaction and the sponsor's signature.

> ```rust

Reviewer: can we import this from a repo?

        .await
        .unwrap();
    // increment the total sponsored fees
    *total_sponsored_fees += gas_price as u128;

    let (bytes, sigs) = signed_tx.to_tx_bytes_and_signatures();

    // Respond with tx-bytes and sponsor signature
    (
        StatusCode::OK,
        Json(
            json!({"message": "Transaction signed and funded successfully",
                            "bytes": bytes,
                            "sigs": sigs,
            }),
        ),
    )
}
```

The function `sign_and_fund_transaction` will:
1- Check if the user has already requested funds. If they have, it will return a conflict status.
2- Add the user's address to the set of addresses that have requested funds.
3- Build a signed and funded transaction using the `sign_and_fund_transaction` util function, which we will implement next.
4- Increment the total sponsored fees by the gas price. This is used for tracking by the sponsor.
5- Respond with the transaction bytes and the sponsor's signature.

Next, we will implement the `sign_and_fund_transaction` util function, which will build the transaction, sign it, and return the signed transaction.
under the `utils.rs` file, add the following code:

> ```rust

Reviewer: can we import this from a repo?

    let gas_budget = 5_000_000;
    let gas_price = client.read_api().get_reference_gas_price().await?;

    let tx = TransactionData::new_programmable_allow_sponsor(
        *sender,
        vec![gas_coin.object_ref()],
        pt,
        gas_budget,
        gas_price,
        *sponsor,
    );

    // Sign the transaction by the sponsor
    let sponsor_signature = keystore.sign_secure(sponsor, &tx, Intent::iota_transaction())?;

    let intent_msg = IntentMessage::new(Intent::iota_transaction(), tx);

    // Now we have a signed tx, which will be sent back to the user (with tx bytes separated from the sponsor singnature)
    let signed_tx = types::transaction::Transaction::from_generic_sig_data(
        intent_msg.value,
        vec![GenericSignature::Signature(sponsor_signature)],
    );

    Ok(signed_tx)
}
```

This function will:
1- Build a programmable transaction that calls the `free_trial` function of the `sponsored_transactions_packages` package.
2- Get the gas coin of the sponsor.
3- Create a transaction data object with the programmable transaction, gas budget, gas price, and sponsor address.
4- Sign the transaction by the sponsor.
5- Return the signed transaction.

> Finally, we can now run the server and call the /sign_and_fund_transaction route to sponsor the free trial. The server will return the transaction bytes and the sponsor's signature, which the user can use to send the transaction to the IOTA network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we can now run the server and call the `/sign_and_fund_transaction` route to sponsor the free trial. The server will return the transaction bytes and the sponsor's signature, which the user can use to send the transaction to the IOTA network.
```

> In a terminal, run the server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a terminal, run the server with the following command:

```

```shell
cargo run
```

> and in another terminal, send a POST request to the /sign_and_fund_transaction route:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In another terminal, send a POST request to the /sign_and_fund_transaction route with the following cURL call:
```

```shell
curl -X POST \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -d '{
        "sender": "0xc7d158a9b05c6dfd07c233649c9e0f78320d066e5ac0e8f5101de500ad9e84e8",
        "content_type": "Music"        
    }' \
    http://localhost:3001/sign_and_fund_transaction

> # Change the sender address to the one you want to use, and the content type to "Music", "Movies", or "News"

Reviewer: Please add this in the paragraph before the call

```

> The server will return the transaction bytes and the sponsor's signature, which the user can use to send the transaction to the IOTA network.

Reviewer: How would the user get the signature?

Author: The user receives Tx bytes as well as the sponsor's signature. The user then signs the Tx and sends the Tx bytes as well as the two signatures to the network.
Shall I rephrase this statement somehow?

```json
{
"message":"Transaction signed and funded successfully",
"bytes":"AAACAAYFTXVzaWMBAbBSNubKBn4/oRS6sVWPNeRAl+AHiqaBdh+qYiIIWKF2DhQAAAAAAAABAQAgaekcgzM1C99rvSmRJmrTOZJ1fbevSCka21jnpbDhqh9zcG9uc29yZWRfdHJhbnNhY3Rpb25zX3BhY2thZ2VzCmZyZWVfdHJpYWwAAgEAAAEBAMfRWKmwXG39B8IzZJyeD3gyDQZuWsDo9RAd5QCtnoToATnqmj+YicH8PXnWPZeuKTp0hZ0M4Lh2wJAhFHHjcGe7ERQAAAAAAAAgAakPl91BjzezX1DLa+BnLWkJ5k0vnTX6/Qg/iJw11gW/KTztJZMRjNIx8QfzQbsa2ds5zQSXv/KdNVcwz04rwugDAAAAAAAAQEtMAAAAAAAA",
"sigs":["ACCPERsBa2Wt7TFO1p7KDbDI5epikVJEmwvE3yLKv3nuMvgMVFZbh9EJ0kQjLAlHGfUaYMEvrZuNMSuR7zOqrA/p1vxEC3McO9IvqEI8BXaHBgCUFx3DXTO+QWmQKwj2uA=="]
}
```

For the full code of the Gas Station server, you can check the [Gas Station server implementation](https://github.com/iota-community/sponsored-transactions-demo/blob/main/backend/src/main.rs)

### Third Component: Transaction Builder

The transaction builder is a simple program that takes the raw tx bytes,sponsor signature and user address as parameters, and sends the transaction to the IOTA network then returns the result.
To make it dynamic, we will use the `clap` crate to parse the command-line arguments.

> `init` a new rust project, different from the Gas Station server, and add the following dependencies to your `Cargo.toml` file:

Reviewer: Please add a link to the gas station server section

```toml

> [dependencies]

Reviewer: can we import this from a repo?

tower = "0.4.13"
iota-sdk = { git = "https://github.com/iotaledger/iota", package = "iota-sdk" }
iota-keys = { git = "https://github.com/iotaledger/iota", package = "iota-keys" }
shared_crypto = { git = "https://github.com/iotaledger/iota", package = "shared-crypto" }

tokio = { version = "1.2", features = ["full"] }
anyhow = "1.0"
bcs = "0.1.4"
clap = "3.0.0-beta.2"
```

> and in the `src/main.rs` file, add the logic for `construct_tx` function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `src/main.rs` file, add the logic for `construct_tx` function:
```

> ```rust

Reviewer: can we import this from a repo?

    let sender_sig = keystore
        .sign_secure(&sender_addr, &tx, intent_msg.intent)
        .map_err(|_| anyhow::anyhow!("Failed to sign transaction with sender's keystore"))?;

    let signed_tx = iota_sdk::types::transaction::Transaction::from_generic_sig_data(
        intent_msg.value,
        vec![
            iota_sdk::types::signature::GenericSignature::Signature(sender_sig),
            iota_sdk::types::signature::GenericSignature::Signature(sig_bcs),
        ],
    );

    let iota_testnet = IotaClientBuilder::default()
        .build_testnet()
        .await
        .map_err(|_| anyhow::anyhow!("Failed to connect to IOTA testnet"))?;

    let transaction_block_response = iota_testnet
        .quorum_driver_api()
        .execute_transaction_block(
            signed_tx.clone(),
            iota_sdk::rpc_types::IotaTransactionBlockResponseOptions::full_content()
                .with_raw_input(),
            iota_sdk::types::quorum_driver_types::ExecuteTransactionRequestType::WaitForLocalExecution,
        )
        .await
        .map_err(|e| anyhow!("Failed to execute transaction: {:?}", e))?;

    println!("{:?}", transaction_block_response);
    Ok(())
}
```

> `construct_tx` function will try to decode the provided transaction bytes and sponsor's signature. Then, it will sign the transaction with the sender's keystore and send the transaction to the IOTA network and print the response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `construct_tx` function will try to decode the provided transaction bytes and the sponsor's signature. Then, it will sign the transaction with the sender's keystore, send it to the IOTA network, and print the response.
```

Now that we have the `tx_bytes` and `sponsor_sig` from the Gas Station server, we can use the `construct_tx` function to send the transaction to the IOTA network:

```shell

> # Replace values with actual values from the Gas Server response. Also try to use a different address for the sponosor address that has no funds

Reviewer: Please add this as text in the tutorial.

> $ cargo run -- --keystore <KEYSTORE-PATH> --encoded-sig "AA15MUFqu8BQX3zWINWVewS5Ci0QeoCLp1AEffmZmzc8w+tnvVAS7gVkHRh61pdyNe+H4NdseUvwW9yLnchqkQ3p1vxEC3McO9IvqEI8BXaHBgCUFx3DXTO+QWmQKwj2uA==" --encoded-tx "AAACAAVNdXNpYwEBsFI25soGfj+hFLqxVY815ECX4AeKpoF2H6piIghYoXYOFAAAAAAAAAEBACBp6RyDMzUL32u9KZEmatM5knV9t69IKRrbWOelsOGqH3Nwb25zb3JlZF90cmFuc2FjdGlvbnNfcGFja2FnZXMKZnJlZV90cmlhbAACAQAAAQEAx9FYqbBcbf0HwjNknJ4PeDINBm5awOj1EB3lAK2ehOgBOeqaP5iJwfw9edY9l64pOnSFnQzguHbAkCEUceNwZ7sOFAAAAAAAACBC3cFbtd21gUyztwvt5k6hwgXZg7/nTKjNvH5WoXR0078pPO0lkxGM0jHxB/NBuxrZ2znNBJe/8p01VzDPTivC6AMAAAAAAABAS0wAAAAAAAA=" --sender-addr 0xc7d158a9b05c6dfd07c233649c9e0f78320d066e5ac0e8f5101de500ad9e84e8

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cargo run -- --keystore <KEYSTORE-PATH> --encoded-sig "AA15MUFqu8BQX3zWINWVewS5Ci0QeoCLp1AEffmZmzc8w+tnvVAS7gVkHRh61pdyNe+H4NdseUvwW9yLnchqkQ3p1vxEC3McO9IvqEI8BXaHBgCUFx3DXTO+QWmQKwj2uA==" --encoded-tx "AAACAAVNdXNpYwEBsFI25soGfj+hFLqxVY815ECX4AeKpoF2H6piIghYoXYOFAAAAAAAAAEBACBp6RyDMzUL32u9KZEmatM5knV9t69IKRrbWOelsOGqH3Nwb25zb3JlZF90cmFuc2FjdGlvbnNfcGFja2FnZXMKZnJlZV90cmlhbAACAQAAAQEAx9FYqbBcbf0HwjNknJ4PeDINBm5awOj1EB3lAK2ehOgBOeqaP5iJwfw9edY9l64pOnSFnQzguHbAkCEUceNwZ7sOFAAAAAAAACBC3cFbtd21gUyztwvt5k6hwgXZg7/nTKjNvH5WoXR0078pPO0lkxGM0jHxB/NBuxrZ2znNBJe/8p01VzDPTivC6AMAAAAAAABAS0wAAAAAAAA=" --sender-addr 0xc7d158a9b05c6dfd07c233649c9e0f78320d066e5ac0e8f5101de500ad9e84e8
```
Please don't add the $ in bash commands, it's annoying when the user copy pastes

```

For the full code of the transaction builder and argument parser, you can check the [Transaction builder implementation](https://github.com/iota-community/sponsored-transactions-demo/blob/main/sender_client_rust/src/main.rs)

## Conclusion

> This tutorial marks the first part of our journey into implementing sponsored transactions on the IOTA network. We explored the backend architecture, including creating a Move-based package for managing subscriptions, setting up a Gas Station server for transaction sponsorship, and building a transaction submission tool using the IOTA Rust SDK. This backend workflow demonstrates how to abstract gas fees for users, providing a seamless onboarding experience for new users on the IOTA network.
> In the second part, we will focus on building the front-end application. This will allow users to interact with the platform, request sponsored transactions, and subscribe to content types. The front-end will serve as the user-facing layer, completing the workflow and ensuring a smooth user experience.
> By the end of this series, you'll have a comprehensive understanding of how to build decentralized applications that integrate sponsored transactions, utilizing the full power of the IOTA ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial marks the first part of our journey into implementing sponsored transactions on the IOTA network. We explored the backend architecture, including creating a Move-based package for managing subscriptions, setting up a Gas Station server for transaction sponsorship, and building a transaction submission tool using the IOTA Rust SDK. This backend workflow demonstrates how to abstract gas fees for users, providing a seamless onboarding experience for new users on the IOTA network.

In the second part, we will focus on building the front-end application. This will allow users to interact with the platform, request sponsored transactions, and subscribe to content types. The front-end will serve as the user-facing layer, completing the workflow and ensuring a smooth user experience.

By the end of this series, you'll have a comprehensive understanding of how to build decentralized applications that integrate sponsored transactions, utilizing the full power of the IOTA ecosystem.
```

```

Technically, the gas Station server has two routes:
1. The root route `/` will return a welcome message.
2. The `/sign_and_fund_transaction` route will handle the user's request to sponsor the free trial. This route will call the `sign_and_fund_transaction` function, which we will implement next.

:::danger No data persistence
In a real-world application, you would want to use a database to store the shared state information. However, for simplicity, we are using a shared state in memory. 
This means that if the server restarts, the shared state will be lost.
:::

Next, we will implement the `sign_and_fund_transaction` function, which will be called when the user sends a request to the `/sign_and_fund_transaction` route. This function will verify the user's eligibility, build the transaction, sign it, and return the transaction and the sponsor's signature.
:::note

> Change the sponsor address to the address you want to use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change the sponsor address to the address you want to use.
```
